#Do not fear becoming an older designer


The other day I took a look at the young designer nominations for the .Net magazine awards.  I was blown away by some of the portfolios and instantly felt old and a little bit inadequate. 

I moped away and have been thinking about it since. As I am almost double the age of most these young hipster types I realised a few things I thought I would share with anyone else who may be feeling a little long in the tooth.  

###Designers are not sportsman

Your average design geek is not like a tennis player or a footballer. Quite the opposite in fact.  Tennis players and footballers careers do not last all that long, because of simple biology.  Older humans are not usually as quick or nimble as younger humans, and therefore the career of professionals in sport is limited.  Apart crown green bowling, maybe.

You average designer does not have to move very quickly.  In fact they don't really need to move much at all, apart from a few wrist movements and trips back and forth to the coffee machine.  Biological decay will do little to change this fact, although there may be more trips to the toilet and confusion on the way back wondering why you went into the wrong room.

No, design performance in the physical sense is never going to be reduced due to frailty. Even in a comfy high back chair, only minor wrist movements are necessary to create award winning design.  Having a frail, forgetful mind on the other hand could create an new and  interesting set of design aesthetics.

###Older is Wiser

The longer you spend in this game, the more you learn about it.  You cant really avoid learning learn more and more about clients and process, and the more experience you gain the more useful you become to add knowledge and perspective. Youngsters may think they are hip and cool now, but fashions come and go.  They have probably never built table based designs, and maybe not even spent a whole day battling with an IE6 bug.  Of courses, those were miserable days in most respects, but they helped shape us. Today the old crew can realise how lucky we all are to be in an html5 / css3 world.  Youngsters merely exist in it. 

There are exceptions to this of course. Some of these young 'whipper-snappers' have been coding and designing since they were knee high to a grasshopper. Oh, and you Youngsters probably didn't understand that last reference either.  

###Just copy them

However you look at it, fresh blood usually brings fresh ideas.  Of course the web being the web means you can simply steal any good ideas they might have and make them even better with all of your wisdom and experience.  You can also scoff patronisingly at the bad ones whilst sighing things like 'that will never work', 'I tried something like that once' and 'I remember last time this came around'.

Copying cool ideas, however, is easy. You too can appear young and hip just as long as you keep all those client meetings virtual.  Face to face meeting might just spoil the illusion as your ever younger clients eyes dart from your grey hair to your ever deepening crows feet and furrows.  Skype is your friend, just as long as you tell them your webcam is broken.






