 WINDSOR INTERNATIONAL HORSE TRIALS (CCI**) """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
21st - 24th May 1998 Schedule of Conditions ORGANISING COMMITTEE (Art.101.6) """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
President: H.R.H. The Princess Royal G.C.V.0 Director: Mr G.J. Rowsell Organiser/Secretary	
Mrs C.P. S. Bullen Avington Park Winchester Hampshire S021 IDD Tel: 01962 779715 
Fax: 01962 779864 GENERAL CONDITIONS """""""""""""""""" The event will be run 
in accordance with : -FEI Statutes, 19th Edition, March 1995, Revision 1996 -FEI 
General Regulations -, 10 Edition, I st January 1996, revised 1997 -FEI Veterinary 
Regulations, 8th Edition 1998. -FEI Rules for Three Day Events, 19 th Edition 
1995 -Manual for Stewarding, 1995 -All subsequent corrections and modifications 
as published by the FEI with its provisions taking precedence. An arbitration 
procedure is provided for in the FEI Statutes and General Regulations referred 
to above. in accordance with this procedure, any appeal against a decision rendered 
by the FEI or its official bodies is to be settled exclusively by the Court of 
arbitration for Sport (CAS) in Lausanne. Switzerland. TENTATIVE TIMETABLE (511.3,519) 
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" Official Briefing and Course Inspection: Wednesday 
20th May 11am First Horse Inspection: Wednesday 20th May 3pm Dressage: Thursday/Friday 
21/22 May 9am Endurance: Saturday 23rd May 11am 3rd Horse inspection: Sunday 24th 
May 10:30am Show Jumping: Sunday 24th May 9.45am Prize-givings: Sunday 24th May 
12am & 5pm OFFICIALS """"""""" GROUND JURY : (Art.148,154,553.1) President Section 
I: Mr Frederik CHR. OBEL (DEN) Herr Christoph BESS (GER) Mrs D. REID (G.B.) President 
Section II: Mr Van de VATER (IRL) Mrs S VON SCHILCHER (IRL) Mrs JA COBCROFT (AUS) 
Foreign Technical Delegate: Mrs T Holderness-Roddam (GBR) (Art. 156, 157, 553.2) 
Course Designer: Mr J Warr (GBR) Chief Steward: Mrs K Wieschoff (GBR) Veterinary 
Delegate: Mr R Christie MRCVS, BVMS (GBR) Associate Veterinary: Mr D Kingsnorth 
NIRCVS (GBR) Technical Conditions: Dressage: The FEI 2-Star Test 1998. The Competition 
area is 60m x 20m Grass. Extensive grass practice areas. Endurance Test: Phases 
A & C: a total of 13640m to be ridden at a speed of 220 mpm Phase B: 23 1 Om ridden 
at a speed of 660 mpm. 8 Birch obstacles. Grass. Phase D: 5,200 - 6,050m ridden 
at a speed of 550 mpm. All grass, 35 efforts. Exercise Area: Extensive ground 
for exercise at all speeds. Jumping: Competition Arena : Approx. 100m x 90m. Grass. 
Course distance 650m-750m with 10 to 12 obstacles (15 efforts, max) ridden at 
a speed of 375 mpm. Exercise area: Large adjacent practice area with practice 
fences. Grass. Protective Headgear: Revised Art.522.1. "Upon arrival wearing a 
hard hat is compulsory for anyone riding a horse on the flat. Protective headgear 
secured by a permanently fitted, non-detachable retention harness secured to the 
shell at more than two points, is compulsory for anyone jumping any obstacle. 
Failure to wear hard hat or jumping an obstacle without headgear or with an incorrect 
or unfastened retention harness shall be penalised by elimination at the discretion 
of the Ground Jury". Advertising: Logos on saddlecloths are permitted. QUALIFICATION 
OF COMEPETITORS AND HORSES (Art. 507.2 - revised) """"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
Each NF must certify with the entries the qualification of each horse and rider. 
Two Star Events, CCI**, etc. are open only to competitors and horses that, not 
necessarily as a combination, have completed a one-star or two-star Three Day 
Event (including a CCN or equivalent standard) or have completed a national Horse 
Trial where the Cross-Country course is of an equivalent level of difficulty to 
a two-star event. NFs must list such qualifying competitions when entering competitors. 
FOREIGN COMPETITORS """"""""""""""""""" Competitors are invited to participate 
by the Organising Comn-fittee through their National Federations. (Art. 134 will 
apply). Each N.F. may enter individual competitors who will have reached at least 
their 17thbirthday (with the express permission of its N.F. art. 506.1.3), in 
1997, with horses aged 6 years or over. There is no restriction on the number 
of horses entered per competitor, but no competitor may start on more that two 
horses. If it becomes necessary to restrict the number of competitors per nation, 
N.Fs will be notified as soon as possible after the closing date. One Groom per 
rider. FACILITIES OFFERED TO OVERSEAS BASED COMPETITORS """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
ARRIVAL/DEPARTURE &TRAVEL All Competitors are responsible for making their own 
travel arrangements to and from the competition. No facilities on site will be 
available before Monday 18th May 1998 midday. ACCOMMODATION & FOOD A modest contribution 
might be made to competitors and grooms depending on Sponsorship. HORSES Stabling 
with hay and shavings will be provided for horses competing in the competition 
at a cost of , 1 00.00. No hard feed will be supplied. Hay & Straw: British law 
prohibits the importation of hay and straw. CUSTOM FORMALITIES AND IMPORT REGULATIONS 
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" All horses must be accompanied by the 
official health certificate appropriate to their country of origins (except France 
and Ireland) and FEI passports which must accompany the horse at all times. Horses 
from outside the EC must also arrive with an ATA Camet issued in the country of 
origin. Horses which arrive in Great Britain with inadequate certification may 
be refused entry by Custom' s Officers at the Port/Airport of arrival. National 
Veterinary Services, N.F' s and major international shipping agencies should have 
details of all documentation required or if in doubt, contact: Ministry of Agriculture, 
Fisheries and Food. Import of Horses Section. Hook Rise South, Tolworth,SURBITON,SurreyKT67NF. 
Tel:01803304411. ThelfillistryofAgriculturehas to be advised of the arrival and 
departure of horses from abroad. it is therefore, important the shipping agent 
is given full detail of travel plans well in advance. (Vet. Regs. Art. 1004.5) 
The Organising Committee will not be responsible for any taxes or fines which 
may be due if any horse or equipment does not return to its country of origin 
at the end of the event THE IMPORT OF DOGS. CATS AND ALL OTHER ANIMALS IS STRICTLY 
FORBIDDEN. TRAVEL ARRANGEMENTS """"""""""""""""""" May be made through: Peden 
Bloodstock Ltd. Borough Court Hartley Wintney. Hants RG27 8JA. Telephone: 01252 
844042 Fax: 01252 844043 ENTRIES """"""" To the Entries Secretary: Miss S Merrick 
Tel/Fax: 01753 866779 Entries in principal should be made by NFs not later than 
8th April 1998 by letter or fax. All Entries close on 28 th April 1998. Entry 
fees of £160.00 (to include FEI levy towards their standardised Medication Control 
Proggramme) to be sent with the entry form. See enclosed for breeding information 
necessary on ggpy forms. ENTRY, PASSES & BADGES TO EVENT SITE """""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
Path Competitor will be issued with sufficient passes and badges to allow access 
to site and stables arrival at the event. FEI guidelines for stable security will 
be strictly implemented. VR Art. 1005. 1. See Annex 1. Each horse entered will 
be allowed three stable passes. If more passes are required a competitor should 
apply in person to the Secretary who may supply additional passes at the absolute 
discretion of the Organising Committee. MEDICAL/VETERINARY & FARRIER """""""""""""""""""""""""""" 
Emergency and routine assistance will be provided, on the site of and for the 
duration of the Event only. Competitors will be charged for other veterinary consultation 
and for shoeing. HEALTH AND SAFETY """"""""""""""""" The Organising Committee 
of this event have taken reasonable precautions to ensure the health and safety 
of everyone present. For these measures to be effective. everyone must take all 
reasonable precautions to avoid and prevent accidents occurring and must obey 
the instructions of the Organising Committee and all ofticials and stewards. Approved 
by the FEI under conditions. Lausanne Signature: FEDERATION EQUESTRE INTERNATIONALE 
Catrin Norinder Manager Three Day Event and Olympic Departments Final approval 
of this schedule by the FEI, in accordance with Art. 1 1 5. 1, denotes only that 
the contents are conform to the FEI Statutes, General Regulations and Rules. By 
no means does this entail implicit acceptance of any liability of the FEI for 
any damages to third parties caused by the Organising Conmiittee and its officials, 
riders, owners and their horses. LICENCE """"""" General Regulation 134. EVERY 
COMPETITOR IN THE CCI** MUST be in possession of a licence issued by his N.F. 
which must be handed in with the horse passport on arrival at the event. This 
includes British riders. Competitors are responsible for demanding its return, 
with the horse passport when they leave the competition. Medical Card: (Annex 
8 of Rules of 3 DE) All competitors must carry readily accessible medical cards. 
INSURANCE """"""""" All owners and competitors are personally responsible for 
damages to third parties caused by themselves, their employees, their agents or 
their horses. They are therefore strongly advised to take out a third party insurance 
providing full coverage for participation in equestrian events at home and abroad. 
and to keep the policy up to date. DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY """"""""""""""""""""""" 
Save for the death or personal injury caused by the negligence of the organisers 
or anyone for whom they are in law responsible, neither the Organisers, the Windsor 
Horse Trials Committee. the British Horse Society, Windsor Great Park, nor any 
agent, employee or representative of these bodies accepts any liability for any 
accident, loss,. damage, injury, illness to any horse, owner, rider. . groom, 
Chef d'Equipe, Veterinary Surgeon,, trainer. spectator, land or any other person 
or property whatsoever, whether caused by their negligence, breach of contract 
or in any other way whatsoever. The Organising Committee reserve the right to 
modify the Schedule. Such modifications are subject to the approval of the Secretary 
General of the FEI. CODE OF CONDUCT """"""""""""""" 1. In all equestrian sports 
the horse must be considered paramount. 2. The well being of the horse shall be 
above the demands of breeders, trainers, riders, owners, dealers, organisers, 
sponsors or officials. 3. All handling and veterinary treatment must ensure the 
health and welfare of the horse. 4. The highest standards of nutrition, health, 
sanitation and safety shall be encouraged and maintained at all times. 5. Adequate 
provision must be made for ventilation, feeding, watering and maintaining a healthy 
environment during transportation. 6. Emphasis should be placed on increasing 
education in training and equestrian practices and on promoting scientific studies 
in equine health. 7. In the interests of the horse, the fitness and competence 
of the rider shall be regarded as essential. 8. All riding and training methods 
must take account of the horse as a living entity and must not include any technique 
considered by the FEI to be abusive. 9. National Federations should establish 
adequate controls in order that all persons and bodies under their jurisdiction 
respect the welfare of the horse. 10. The National and International Rules and 
Regulations in equestrian sport regarding the health and welfare of the horse 
must be adhered to not only during national and international events, but also 
in training. competition Rules and Regulations shall be continually reviewed to 
ensure such welfare. 